Narrator: In this
world. there is real evil
in the darkest shadows and
in the most ordinary places.
These are the true
stories of the innocent
and the unimaginable.
Cindy sarrow and her family
moved back to her hometown.
hoping for a better life.
But something sinister
lurks in the shadows.
waiting to make its move.
Desperate to
protect her children
from something she cannot see...
she becomes caught in
a supernatural nightmare
she cannot escape.
[ Whispering ]
Between the world we
see and the things we fear.
there are doors.
When they are opened...
Nightmares become reality.
Even the most innocuous places
bear the scars
of a twisted past.
Evil can echo through time.
lying dormant until
the unsuspecting
unknowingly cross its
path. And the ill-prepared
On the outskirts of St. Louis
sits the township
of belleville. Illinois.
Like many small cities and towns
that dot the midwest landscape.
it has remained the
same for decades.
The year is 1991.
34-year-old Cindy sarrow
has lived in the small
town for the past two years.
Tonight. Cindy can't shake the
feeling that something is wrong.
[ Growling ]
[ Growling continues ]
[ Dog barking ]
[ Growling ]
[ Stairs creak ]
[ Screams ]
Cindy: I just thought
it was a nightmare.
but then I kept having it over
and over... the same dream.
In my dreams. I was
fearing for my life.
And I knew that whatever
this was was trying to kill me.
I just felt it.
Here you go. honey.
What do you think
the surprise will be?
Narrator: Cindy is
at stay-at-home mom.
She has two children...
7-year-old christie
and 9-year-old Brooke.
Brooke: Me and my
family are really close.
and it seemed that
nothing could tear us apart.
When's daddy gonna get
here? He's taking forever.
He'll be here in
just a few minutes.
Honey. relax and
eat your breakfast.
I can't.
I'm too excited
about the surprise.
What do you think it is?
I have no idea.
but I bet whatever
it is. it's wonderful.
Dad's home.
Narrator: Cindy's
longtime boyfriend. Jake.
works the graveyard shift at
a chemical plant in St. Louis.
How are my little
ladies today. hmm?
[ Smooches ]
Hey.
Hi. honey.
Everyone ready
for my big surprise?
What is it?
Well. you know how
we've been wanting
to move back to caseyville.
closer to your mother.
closer to work for me?
What is it?
Tell us. daddy! What's
the big surprise?
Girls...
go get dressed
and I'll show you.
I think...
I think I found that dream home.
Narrator: Both Cindy and
Jake grew up in caseyville.
a rural town at the base of
the Mississippi river bluffs.
For months. they've talked about
moving back to their hometown
and raising their family there.
Uh-huh.
Come on! Hop to!
Be careful. you two!
So. what do you think?
It's nice.
I really like it.
But do we have the
money for a place like this?
Barely. but yes.
Cindy: It was a house
that we could afford.
but we were really
financially strapped.
There was things that
needed to be done to the house.
We would have to come
up with the money for that.
Sounds like it's gonna take a
lot of money and a lot of work.
I know. honey. I know.
but there aren't a lot of
houses up for sale right now.
and it might be years before
we get another chance like this.
Now. you've always talked about
how much you've wanted
to raise our family here.
It really is a great house.
It is a great house.
Yeah? All right!
[ Laughs ]
We were real excited.
We weren't renting.
We'd have our own
home and just be happy.
Isn't that great?
All right?
We can fit our TV
right through there.
Mom! What are you doing here?
Narrator: Cindy is grateful to
be near her ailing mother. Anita.
who suffers from a
degenerative disease.
Cindy: She was sick.
and she was getting sicker.
and I just wanted
to be close to her
to be able to help
her and be with her.
Grandma's here! Grandma!
Oh. so good to see you!
Want to see my new room?
Our new room. Sure.
Girls. take grandma
inside. Okay.
I'll get the rest of the boxes.
You should start unpacking.
That's a great idea.
Thanks. honey.
[ Cabinet door squeaks ]
Jake!
The cabinet doors
are falling off!
I think it's just the
hinges on these doors
are just a little too old.
Cindy: I had doubts
about the house.
I thought. "what
did I buy here?"
I guess you're right.
I should expect things
like this to happen.
It is a pretty old house.
Exactly.
Now. where did I put my tools?
Narrator: That night.
Cindy helps her daughters
set up their new room.
[ Electricity crackling ]
Oh. looks like that
bulb's about to go.
Hold on. girls. while I go
look for another light bulb.
The bedroom had a
very eerie feeling to it.
I just had a horrible feeling
that something was
wrong with the house.
[ Crackling continues ]
Whoa. Where are
you running off to?
[ Breathing heavily ]
What's the matter?
'Cause I wasn't sure myself
about what was going on...
We had just moved there...
That I didn't want to worry her.
It's okay. honey.
You can tell me.
I don't like my room. mom.
What do you mean?
It's a great room.
It's perfect for you guys.
I don't know.
There's something
creepy about it.
I can't sleep in there.
I don't want to
sleep in there either.
Oh. you guys don't
have to be scared.
Your father and I will
be right here with you.
Mom. no!
Brooke!
You are too old to
be acting like this.
I expect more from you.
But. daddy... no "buts." okay?
Now. that's where you girls
are sleeping. and that's final.
Can you do it for me?
[ Sighs ] Okay. I'll do it.
Jake: That's my girl.
Thank you. honey.
Narrator: Later that night...
as if seeing her
house for the first time.
Cindy has a sudden revelation.
Cindy: I couldn't believe it.
It was the same stairs
that are in my nightmares.
[ Breathing heavily ]
I was really afraid.
but what could I do?
Narrator: Cindy knows that
Jake would never consider moving
because of an eerie feeling.
[ Gasps ]
You okay?
Look like you've seen a ghost.
Yeah. I'm okay.
Just a little tired. that's all.
All right.
You ready for work?
Yeah. In fact.
I'm a little late.
Do you think maybe
you could play hooky?
You know. maybe call
in sick or something?
What. you getting
freaked out. too?
It's no wonder
Brooke and christie
don't want to
sleep in their room.
Like mother. like daughters.
You'll be okay. all right?
[ Smooches ]
If you need me. give
me a call at work.
If you don't. I'll see
you in the morning.
Okay.
Brooke: It seemed like
every hour. I was waking up.
I had this feeling that
someone was there.
watching me. but I
couldn't see anyone.
[ Electricity crackles ]
Narrator: A few weeks later.
Cindy finally begins to
feel settled in her new home.
Come on. girls.
You have your own beds.
Why don't you sleep in our room?
Because your bed's too small.
Now. come on. Let's go.
But. mom. I can't. Please.
I couldn't go back in there.
I couldn't sleep in
there. I was afraid. really.
I think that's what
it comes down to...
I was just really afraid.
All right. I'll
sleep on the sofa.
But sooner or later.
this has got to end.
Good night. Good night. mom.
Good night. baby.
Sleep tight.
[ Creaking ]
[ Creaking continues ]
Narrator: Cindy
fears that someone
may have broken into the house.
Cindy: I was afraid for
my children and myself
because we were
home by ourselves.
Mom? [ Gasps ]
What are you doing?
Honey. what are you doing up?
I was thirsty.
What are you doing?
I thought I heard a noise.
You really scared me.
I know. You jumped
like 10 feet in the air.
All right. Now you
need to get to bed.
Night. mom.
Narrator: The following night.
Cindy calls her mother.
Anita. to see how she's feeling.
She lives in a one-bedroom
apartment across town.
Anita: I don't know
what happened.
and all of a sudden.
my head started to spin.
Should I stop by your place?
I appreciate the offer.
but don't bother. honey.
I think what I need is
just to rest for a while.
Okay. Sounds good.
Well. I guess I'll
see you tomorrow.
Okay. Sure.
Is everything all right?
Mom. I think that
the house is...
[ Static hissing ]
Cindy?
Look. mom. everything's
fine. I got to go.
Narrator: With all the strange
things occurring in the house...
Cindy begins to
have trouble sleeping.
[ Screams ]
[ Gasps ]
[ Breathing heavily ]
Cindy: I couldn't
go black to sleep
because I just felt there
was somebody staring at me.
I knew somebody was
there. but I couldn't see them.
I could just feel
their presence.
Narrator: The next morning.
Cindy: I was pushed
so hard that I went down.
Narrator: Cindy is hesitant to
tell Jake what just happened.
She can barely
believe it herself.
Jake?
Wake up.
Jake.
There's something
wrong with this place.
Not the electricity again.
No. it's not that.
Jake. I don't think
I can live here.
Oh. no.
Look. honey. I know there's
been a lot of repairs lately.
but that'll end.
I just don't feel safe.
And I don't think the
girls feel safe either.
Well... i can get an
alarm system if you want.
I don't want an alarm system.
I want a different house.
Oh. Cindy. Cindy. come on.
Don't be ridiculous.
We just moved in.
Cindy: How can I tell
somebody what's going on here
when it's so bizarre. everything
that was happening. you know?
Who's gonna believe it?
You know we can't afford it.
I know you're not too
thrilled with the house.
but just give it some time.
Please?
I don't think I can.
Fine.
Please fill me in
on how you plan
to come up with all this money!
I don't know! But
I'll figure it out!
Brooke: That upset me. because
when we lived in belleville.
they always got along.
and now it seemed that my
mother and father were fighting a lot.
Come on. girls.
Narrator: Weeks pass...
And the strange
activity continues.
Although Cindy is
not a religious person.
she begins to pray
on a regular basis.
She wonders if she can
find comfort in her faith.
Cindy: I put up a
picture of Jesus.
I felt like that was
protection for us.
Jake: Cindy.
Cindy. come here.
What is it. Jake?
Jake?
[ Gasping ]
[ Crying ]
I was scared half to death.
Cindy. are you okay?
It's all right. It's all right.
Did you hurt yourself?
What's going on?
Something attacked me.
and then I couldn't breathe!
Okay. Slow down. slow
down. Take a deep breath.
Tell me.
There's a ghost in this house.
Come on. honey.
Tell me the truth.
Tell me what happened.
No. I'm being serious. Jake.
There's something here.
and it's trying to hurt me.
Sweetie. it's just us. It's
just in your imagination.
No! You're not listening to me!
There's something in this
house. and it's trying to kill me.
and you don't even care!
Of course I care. but try to
be reasonable here. Cindy.
There... there's
nothing in this house.
I can't live here.
Jake. it tried to suffocate me!
Cindy. [ Sighs ]
This house is not haunted. okay?
Ghosts do not exist.
I wish I never let you
convince me to buy this house.
Are you kidding me?
You wanted this
house as much as I did!
What's gotten into you lately?
Jake. I'm scared!
We sunk our life
savings into this house!
We are not moving.
and that's final.
Cindy: I couldn't
take it anymore.
I needed help.
I started calling
different churches.
and nobody wanted to help me.
Finally. I spoke with a priest.
and he was going to help me.
Narrator: In the nearby
town of belleville...
Cindy: My life's
falling apart. father.
I just don't know what to do.
Cindy meets with father Thomas.
From what you've told me.
it appears as though
it may be demonic.
The first step is
to bless the house.
That may drive the demon out.
But I'll need some
time to prepare.
I'll have to fast and pray
before I can actually
conduct the blessing.
I understand. father. I'm
so grateful for your help.
Here.
When you're afraid.
read psalm 91.
It will protect you from evil.
Thank you again. father.
Narrator: That night.
Cindy anxiously waits
for Jake to come home.
She keeps herself calm
by reading the Bible.
[ Gravel crunching ]
[ Engine idling ]
[ Insects chirping ]
Jake?
[ Screams ]
Please hurry!
[ Screaming ]
[ Screams ]
[ Siren wailing ]
Police department!
Put the ax down!
Cindy: I was relieved to see
the police when they came.
It was like. "thank god."
Put your hands behind your head.
He had chopped the
door down with the ax.
Thank god they made it in time
before he did whatever
he was out to do.
[ Indistinct radio chatter ]
Man: Are you okay?
Can you tell me
what happened here?
Jake...
I don't know. He just...
He didn't look right.
Narrator: Cindy believes
that Jake was possessed.
Do you want to take
charges out on him?
She now knows it was Jake
who tried to suffocate her.
Ma'am?
I'll think about it.
Cindy does not press charges.
believing that Jake's
will was not his own.
But she does not allow
him back into the house.
He moves in with his mother.
An hour later. the girls
return from their movie.
What happened to the door. mom?
What's wrong. mom?
Daddy's gonna have
to go away for a while.
Why?
It's really complicated.
but I'm trying to fix things.
and maybe in a few weeks.
things will be normal again.
Dad's not gonna be here at all?
Brooke: When I found out my
dad wasn't gonna be around.
I was really upset because
we were really close.
and it just seemed like since
we moved into the house.
our whole family
was falling apart.
Don't you worry.
Everything is gonna be fine.
I promise.
Now go wash up.
I'll be up in a few
minutes to tuck you in.
Okay.
[ Sobbing ]
[ Screams ]
Narrator: Cindy and the girls flee
to Anita's one-bedroom apartment.
[ Crying ] It possessed Jake.
and he tried to attack me.
I can't go back there!
What if it tries
to hurt the girls?
I was so relieved
that they were safe...
And that we weren't
going back to the house.
"The lord is my
refuge and my fortress.
my god. in whom I trust.
I will not fear the terror
that attacks by night.
or the arrow that flies by day.
No affliction will
enter my house.
He will give his angels reign
over me to keep me safe."
When I started
reciting psalms 91.
I felt like I was
being protected.
like god was with me and
he was gonna help me.
The next thing I know.
there's no house there where
my house should've been.
I didn't understand it.
I just think I was
in a different time.
[ Distorted voices.
man chanting ]
It was an answer to my prayer.
telling me that something had
went on years and years ago.
Narrator: The next day.
Cindy goes to father Thomas
to tell him about her dream.
These men were
performing a ceremony
that had something
to do with the dead.
They were digging up a body
where my house now stands.
It sounds as though
you witnessed
a ritual of necromancy.
That's a form of
summoning a spirit. a demon.
or a human soul
to enter a corpse.
But why?
Well. there are several reasons.
but mainly. the goal is
to conjure up a demon.
which explains the demonic
presence in your home.
I'll be able to perform the
house blessing tomorrow.
Thank you.
But...
I'm going to ask you to do
something you may not like.
Anything. father. I
just want this to end.
I need you and the
girls to be present
while I perform the blessing.
You must confront the demon
in order to send
him to the other side.
Well... i guess I
have no other choice.
I really didn't want
any of us in the house.
I would've much rather handed
him the key and let him do it.
but it couldn't
be done that way.
Narrator: Father Thomas knows
that a demon is
highly unpredictable.
It has already manifested
itself in different ways.
Hi. father Thomas.
Hello.
Peace be in this house
and with all who live here.
Lord god of heaven and earth.
bless this house
and all who inhabit it.
Cindy: I was still
scared. but I kept praying.
I didn't want anybody hurt.
and I just wanted
this to be over with.
In the name of the father
and the son and the holy spirit.
Lord god of heaven and earth.
bless this house
and all who inhabit it.
Fill them with
the light of Christ
that their concerns for
others may reflect your love.
We ask through Christ our lord
in the name of the father
and the son and the holy spirit.
Fill them with
the light of Christ
that their concerns for
others may reflect your love.
We ask through Christ our lord
in the name of the father
and the son and the holy spirit.
I can't thank you
enough. father.
Of course. my dear.
I'll always be here for
you in your time of need.
Thank you.
Goodbye.
Bye.
I felt relieved that we
finally had our house
and there was no evil.
Narrator: That night.
Cindy and the girls
move back into the house.
I felt my hair rise on my neck.
Something grabbed me.
Mom!
[ Screams ]
[ Electricity crackles ]
What?!
Mom! Brooke!
[ Gasps ]
No! You can't have my daughters!
In the name of the
lord. let my daughter go!
[ Screams ]
[ Crying ] Oh. my
god! Oh. my god!
Oh. my god! My baby!
Oh. thank you. god.
I was terrified.
I've never. ever seen
anything so powerful in my life.
Girls. come on. come on!
Come on. honey. Come on!
Come on. run! Hurry!
Hurry. honey! Go!
Run. honey! Come on. Come on.
Come on. girls. Let's
just go. Go. go. go. go!
Just go. girls!
[ Crying ]
I don't know. I don't know.
I don't know. I don't know!
I don't know!
[ Engine starts ]
Narrator: Cindy and the
girls stay with her mother
while she tries
to sell the house.
Cindy and Jake are unable
to bridge the rift between them
and decide to go
their separate ways.
Cindy begins
working at a local hotel
and eventually saves enough
money to purchase a new home.
Jake maintains a relationship
with Brooke and christie.
seeing them on weekends.
Over time. Cindy and
her daughters' lives
become peaceful once more.
but memories of their horrifying
ordeal continue to haunt them.
Cindy: Going through
this experience
made me believe that
there is evil out here.
We have nightmares
still. 15 years later.
It'll always be with us.
but we're getting
stronger about things.
Narrator: The house remains
empty for quite some time
until a couple from out
of town buys the place.
Within a few months.
their daughter encounters
an evil presence
and the family
quickly moves out.